[Music]
this microchip can take up to 26 weeks
to make in its as many as 100 layers
billions of transistors are packed into
an area about the size of a fingernail
they're the brains behind almost
everything we use in our increasingly
electronic world here's how these
complex tiny devices are made
the process begins with silicon-rich
sand why silicon
silicon is a semiconductor it's the
sweet spot between an insulator and a
pure conductor that means its properties
such as its conductivity can be altered
by adding impurities or doping to meet
the needs of different electronic
devices this also allows us to control
the electrical signals that pass through
silicon is also abundant it's one of the
10 most common elements found on earth
but much of the silicon found in the
wild is chemically bound to oxygen so
the two elements must be separated the
sand is combined with carbon and melted
in crucibles to produce carbon monoxide
and 99
pure silicon after further processing
ultrapure silicon is produced next a
seed crystal is placed in contact with
molten silicon as the seed crystal is
slowly pulled away silicon atoms are
deposited on the bottom surface the
result is a large cylindrical bull or a
single crystal ingot of pure silicon the
bull is then thinly sliced into wafers
silicon wafers typically have diameters
of 1 to 12 inches with the most
state-of-the-art facilities being able
to produce wafers up to 18 inches in
diameter bigger wafers are of course
able to yield more microchips
once the silicon wafers are cut the
production process begins in full
microchips are made in extremely sterile
conditions free from contaminants such
as dust if even just one particle of
dust makes its way onto a silicon wafer
the entire batch is at risk of being
ruined this would derail a process that
can take an average of 12 weeks the
first step of the production process is
deposition a thin non-conducting layer
of silicon dioxide is grown or deposited
on the surface of the wafer then the
silicon wafer is prepared for
lithography by coating it with
photosensitive and light resistant
materials the next step is very critical
exposure the prepared silicon wafers
enter a lithography machine and are
exposed to uv light passed through a
reticle containing the chip's blueprint
the areas exposed to light are hardened
while unexposed areas are then etched
away by hot gases to leave a
three-dimensional microchip the
electrical conductivity of different
parts of the chip can also be altered by
doping them with chemicals under heat
and pressure this process can be
repeated hundreds of times for the same
chip producing a more complex integrated
circuit at each step to create
conducting paths between the components
a thin layer of metal such as aluminum
is overlaid onto the chip and the
etching process is used to remove
everything except the thin conducting
pathways several layers of conductors
separated by glass insulators can be
laid down each chip on the wafer is then
tested for performance before it's
separated from other chips on the wafer
by a saw since microchips are
essentially circuits built on an
incredibly small scale they have a basic
set of components capacitors can
temporarily store an electrical charge
resistors help control the electrical
current transistors can either amplify
or switch the electrical signals passing
through for more advanced chips like
those found on high-end graphics cards
there can be upwards of 28 billion
transistors on board more transistors on
microchips allow them to send out more
instructions
increasing the computational power
moore's law predicts that computer chip
manufacturing would advance at a steady
rate allowing transistor counts to
double every two years
based on the sheer power of the
technology we use on a day-to-day basis
this decade's old prediction seems to
still be mostly true manufacturers have
been shrinking down their transistor
sizes to fit more onto chips each
breakthrough in transistor size has
allowed the production of more powerful
chips for our phones computers and
gaming consoles in recent years they've
gotten each transistor down to as small
as 8 x ten to the power of negative
eight inches in diameter allowing an
amazing 50 billion transistors to be
crammed onto a single chip
manufacturing microchips is truly one of
our most complex feats and yet
innovations are happening every day
[Music]
[Music]
you
